feat(identity): multiple active secrets (#6338)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/kong-identity/auth-servers.md

## {{site.identity}} client credential authentication flow

> The client credentials flow is a [standard OAuth flow](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4) where a client authenticates to {{site.identity}} using credentials (such as a `client_id` and secret) that you've issued beforehand. This flow suits situations where only the client needs to authenticate, such as: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client credentials flow is a [standard OAuth flow](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4) where a client authenticates to {{site.identity}} using credentials (such as a `client_id` and `client_secret`) that you've issued beforehand. This can be useful when only the client needs to authenticate, such as: 
```
I think `client_secret` is accurate, but this is just my assumption.

- Machine-to-Machine (M2M) use cases

> - A microservice authenticating to {{site.base_gateway}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A microservice authenticating to {{site.base_gateway}}
```

## {{site.identity}} client credential authentication flow

> The client credentials flow is a [standard OAuth flow](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4) for using pre-determined credentials (such as a `client_id` and secret) for authenticating a client to {{site.identity}}. This is typically used in situations where the authentication context is _only the client itself_, and for this reason is often used for Machine-to-Machine (M2M) use cases, such as a microservice authenticating to {{site.base_gateway}}.

Author: ```suggestion
The client credentials flow is a [standard OAuth flow](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4) where a client authenticates to {{site.identity}} using credentials (such as a `client_id` and secret) that you've issued beforehand. This flow suits situations where only the client needs to authenticate, such as: 
- Machine-to-Machine (M2M) use cases
- A microservice authenticating to {{site.base_gateway}}.
```

{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

> ### Specifying client IDs and secrets

Author: ```suggestion
### Client IDs and secrets
```

> The specific client credentials that {{site.identity}} supports are the `client_id` (which is determined when the client is created on the auth server) and `client_secret`.

Author: ```suggestion

{{site.identity}} generates both the `client_id` and the `client_secret` values when you create a client on the authorization server from the UI or send a POST request to the [API endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient). To set them yourself, make a  PUT request to the [`clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient)

```

> If you create the client by sending a [POST request to the `/auth-servers/{authServerId}/clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient), then the client ID and initial secret will be generated automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> If you send a [PUT request to the `/auth-servers/{authServerId}/clients/{clientId}` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient), then you can set the `client_id` and/or `client_secret` explicitly.

Author: ```suggestion

```

{:.info}

> > **Note:** For security reasons, {{site.konnect_short_name}} does not store the actual value of the secrets associated with a client. As such, the actual value will only ever be presented once, at the time the secret is generated. This might be when a new client is created with an autogenerated secret, or when additional client secrets are generated for rotation.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and to securely store theirs values when they're generated at creation.
```

> ### Rotating secrets

Author: ```suggestion
### Secrets rotation
```

{% capture update-client-secret %}
<!--vale off-->
{% konnect_api_request %}
url: /v1/auth-servers/$AUTH_SERVER_ID/clients/$CLIENT_ID/secrets/$OLD_SECRET_ID
method: PATCH
status_code: 200
body:
  enabled: false
{% endkonnect_api_request %}
<!--vale on-->
{% endcapture %}
{{update-client-secret | indent: 3}}

1. **Test the client application**

   Test the client application to ensure it can continue to authenticate successfully with the new secret.

1. **Delete the old secret**

   After you've verified the current application can still authenticate using the new secret with the old secret disabled, you can delete the old secret in the API by sending a DELETE request to the `/auth-servers/{authServerId}/clients/{clientId}/secrets/{clientSecretId}` endpoint:
{% capture delete-client-secret %}
<!--vale off-->
{% konnect_api_request %}
url: /v1/auth-servers/$AUTH_SERVER_ID/clients/$CLIENT_ID/secrets/$SECRET_ID
method: DELETE
status_code: 204
{% endkonnect_api_request %}
<!--vale on-->
{% endcapture %}
{{delete-client-secret | indent: 3}}
{% endnavtab %}

> {% endnavtabs %}

Author: This workflow is part of another PR
```suggestion

```

{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

### Client IDs and secrets

{{site.identity}} generates both the `client_id` and the `client_secret` values when you create a client on the authorization server from the UI or send a POST request to the [API endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient). To set them yourself, make a  PUT request to the [`clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient)

{:.info}

> > **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and to securely store theirs values when they're generated at creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and securely store their values when they're generated.
```

You can have a maximum of two secrets active at a time.

> This allows you to rotate secrets without incurring downtime using the UI or API.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows you to [rotate secrets](/how-to/rotate-auth-server-client-secrets/) without incurring downtime using the UI or API.
```

> This allows you to [rotate secrets](/how-to/rotate-auth-server-client-secrets/) without incurring downtime using the UI or API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to [rotate secrets](/how-to/rotate-auth-server-client-secrets/) without incurring downtime using the UI or API:
* **UI:** Navigate to an auth server's client, click the **Secrets** tab and click **Generate new secret**.
* **API:** Send a POST request to the `/auth-servers/{authServerId}/clients/{clientId}/secrets` endpoint.
```
On reference pages, I try to provide a general idea of how users can configure the thing in the UI and API (just because people do ask about how to do things in the UI, so this covers that since most of our how tos use the API, TF, decK, etc.)

Author: ```suggestion
This allows you to [rotate secrets](/how-to/rotate-auth-server-client-secrets/) without incurring downtime using the API by sending a POST request to the `/auth-servers/{authServerId}/clients/{clientId}/secrets` endpoint. When creating a new secret, you can either:

- Input the value of the new secret with the `"secret"` field.
- Let {{site.identity}} automatically generate a new secret and save the value returned by the API response.
```

{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

### Client IDs and secrets

{{site.identity}} generates both the `client_id` and the `client_secret` values when you create a client on the authorization server from the UI or send a POST request to the [API endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient). To set them yourself, make a  PUT request to the [`clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient)

{:.info}
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and to securely store theirs values when they're generated at creation.

You can have a maximum of two secrets active at a time.
This allows you to rotate secrets without incurring downtime using the UI or API.

> {% comment %}

Author: ```suggestion

```

{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

### Client IDs and secrets

{{site.identity}} generates both the `client_id` and the `client_secret` values when you create a client on the authorization server from the UI or send a POST request to the [API endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient). To set them yourself, make a  PUT request to the [`clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient)

{:.info}
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and to securely store theirs values when they're generated at creation.

> ### Secrets rotation

Author: ```suggestion

```

> You can have two secrets active at a time.

Author: ```suggestion
You can have a maximum of two secrets active at a time.
```

{% endmermaid %}
<!--vale on-->

### Client IDs and secrets

{{site.identity}} generates both the `client_id` and the `client_secret` values when you create a client on the authorization server from the UI or send a POST request to the [API endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/createAuthServerClient). To set them yourself, make a  PUT request to the [`clients` endpoint](/api/konnect/kong-identity/v1/#/operations/replaceAuthServerClient)

{:.info}
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't store the client's secrets. Make sure to copy and to securely store theirs values when they're generated at creation.

You can have a maximum of two secrets active at a time.
This allows you to rotate secrets without incurring downtime using the UI or API.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
{% comment %}

```
